Welcome back everyone in this lecture we're going to discuss non-negative matrix factorization and how
we can apply it to topic modeling.
Non-negative matrix factorization is an unsupervised algorithm that simultaneously performs dimensionality
reduction and clustering.
We can use it in conjunction with T.F. idea to model topic's across various documents.
So because the general mathematics behind non-negative matrix factorization are an image.
And that we'll show you how you can apply it with a document matrix.
So first you're given a non-negative matrix A which is what we're going to be able to create using T.F.
idea.
And then we want to find a K that image an approximation in terms of two other non-negative factors
w an h.
So you can have some matrix A which has and by M some rows features and columns or objects and we want
to perform factorization to essentially approximate a with the matrix multiplication of W and H where
we have and by K for W and K by M for H and again we are going to approximate each object.
That is the columns of a by a linear combination of K reduce them mentions or basis vectors in W. each
Bass's vector can then be interpreted as a cluster and the membership's of objects in these clusters
are encoded by H.
So the way this is going to work again is we have an input that we're providing a non-negative data
matrix which is a.
And in this case that's going to be your T.F. idea.
So your term frequency inverse document frequency for the documents versus the actual words and those
across all the documents then we're going to have a number of Bass's vectors or k.
In our case for topic modeling the k is going to be the number of topics we choose.
So just like before with LDA we actually have to decide on how many topics we want to try to discover.
So we get to choose the value OK and then we're going to initialize some values for the factors W H
and these start off as random matrices then it's our job to essentially First get some sort of measurement
of the reconstruction error between a and the approximation.
H and then we're going to do is optimize.
So we have an expectation maximisation optimization to essentially refine W and H in order to minimize
that objective function essentially keep updating those coefficients until the approximation of W. H
is actually going to make sense for a.
So a common approach is to essentially iterate between two multiplicative update rules until convergence
updating H then updated w and then repeating that process and to Convergys.
So the way this works for our particular use case is we first construct a vector space model for documents
after we do things like filter out Stop words.
And that results in a term document matrix for a or a document termit tricks DTM.
Then we apply T.F. IDF term weight normalization to a and then normalized T.F. idea of vectors to unit
length.
Keep in mind those first three steps even though it sounds like a lot.
Sikat learn is essentially doing all of that for us when we call it T.F. idea of vector Isar.
So we don't have to do things like remove the Stoppard's ourselves and call count vectorizing and then
call the term frequency and then figure out inverse document frequency.
Recall that all of that from text feature extraction is essentially done under the hood for us by calling
the T.F. idea of vector Isar circular.
So once we've done that or we're going to do is we're going to initialize the factors using an ant and
the SVT or non-negative double single singular value decomposition on the A matrix.
And the we're going to apply a projected gradient non-negative matrix factorization to a.
So then what we end up discovering are the basis vectors.
Those are the topics or clusters in the data and then we have a coefficient matrix which is the membership
weights for documents relative to each topic.
In this case each cluster.
So again all we're doing is we're going to create a documentary matrix with T.F. idea factorization.
So we've done that before.
It looks something like this here instead of numerical values we're just representing the various values
by how dark blue there is.
And then we're going to have a resulting w an H.
And so the basics are vectors.
Those columns in W..
Those are your topics and we can see how words relate to particular topics.
So looks like Topic one has TV shows and actors.
Topic 2 has to do a sports clubs footballs and then topic three tenths of do business banks money and
finance and then h is going to have coefficients and that's going to be the membership's for each document.
So we have co-efficient values for each document and how they relate to each topic.
So the results are pretty similar as far as interpretation to what we saw before we get some sort of
relationship between the documents and the topics and the words and the topics.
Now keep in mind just like LDK were still going to need to select the number of expected topics beforehand.
So we need to actually again choose that value of k and say something like I believe there are 12 topics
across all these articles or I believe there are seven topics.
So you have to initialize with some sort of value of k and also just like with L.D. a we all have to
interpret these topics based on the coefficient values of the words per topic.
Keep in mind these matrix coefficient values are not probabilities that can be interpreted like we did
with LDK.
We're still going to be able to interpret a relationship between a word to a topic of the coefficient
and between a document to a topic with the coefficient but it's not like a probability value.
Lta gave us it's just the coefficient value that the non negative matrix factorization solved for now.
Luckily due to sikat learns uniform syntax switching out LDK for MF is actually very simple.
In fact we're going to be able to kind of run through the last notebook and very easily adapt it for
an F so we're going to repeat our analysis of the article dataset and show you how you can do topic
modeling and discover topics.
And we're going to be able to go through it a lot faster because we actually just have to swap out a
couple of things in order to run an MF.
So we're going to use the same notebook as we did before and then just show you what you need to swap
to perform non-negative matrix factorization.
OK we'll see you at the next lecture.